---
title: 'Install Nuxt SEO'
description: 'Get started with Nuxt SEO by installing the dependency to your project.'
navigation:
  title: 'Installation'
---

::u-alert{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" title="test" class="not-prose"}
#title
Nuxt SEO is in beta.

#description
While it is ready and being used in production environments already, the documentation is still being written and some minor
API changes may occur.

It's recommended to keep an eye on the beta releases that come out.
::

## Setup

1. Install `@nuxtseo/module` dependency to your project:

::code-group

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm i -D @nuxtseo/module
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add -D @nuxtseo/module
```

```bash [npm]
npm install -D @nuxtseo/module
```

::

2. Add it to your `modules` section in your `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtseo/module']
})
```

## Site URL

:UBadge{color="amber" variant="solid" label="Important"}

Many of the Nuxt SEO modules will need to know what your production canonical URL is to avoid issues.

You can learn to set one by reading the [Recommended Site Config](/nuxt-seo/guides/configuring-modules) guide.

## Staging / Testing Environments

:UBadge{color="amber" variant="solid" label="Important"}

If you're using Preview / Staging / Testing environments you will need to add some additional configuration.

Learn how by reading the [Disabling Indexing](/robots/guides/disable-indexing) guide.

If you only have a production environment, you can skip this step.

## Next Steps

All modules are now installed and configured!

- Have dynamic URLs? Learn how to [configure dynamic URLs](/sitemap/guides/dynamic-urls) for your sitemap.
- Want to set up dynamic OG Images? Follow the [Tutorial: Getting Familiar With Nuxt OG Image](/og-image/getting-started/getting-familar-with-nuxt-og-image).
- Want to get started with Schema.org quickly? Check the [Schema.org Quick Start](/schema-org/guides/quick-setup) guide.
