---
title: App Icons
description: Learn how metadata files work with logos.
---

By following the convention for your logos, you can automatically generate `link` tags.

This is based on [Next.js Metadata File](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/metadata/app-icons) with an almost identical API, however
runtime images are not supported.

You can optionally place logos in the root of your `public` folder of alongside your `pages` directory. Any images in the pages
directory will take share the same routing.

## Naming Convention

### `favicon`

- Name: `favicon.ico`

A single `favicon.ico` file should be placed in the `public` directory. It is supported by most browsers and displayed in the browser tab.

```html [head output]
<link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" sizes="any" />
```

### `icon`

- Name: `*icon.{ico,jpg,jpeg,png,svg}`, `*icon-*.{ico,jpg,jpeg,png,svg}`

Icons give you greater control over the displayed icon. You can provide multiple icons and
the browser will automatically select the best icon based on the device's pixel density and uses it to display the app icon.

If you have multiple icons and need to sort them, it's recommended you prefix them with their order. For example:
`1.icon.png`, `2.icon.png`, `3.icon.png`.

```html [head output]
<link rel="icon" href="/1.icon.png" sizes="32x32" type="image/png" />
<link rel="icon" href="/2.icon.png" sizes="192x192" type="image/png" />
<link rel="icon" href="/3.icon.png" sizes="360x360" type="image/png" />
```

### `apple-touch-icon`

- Name: `*apple-icon.{png,jpg,jpeg}`, `*apple-touch-icon.{png,jpg,jpeg}`

Apple touch icons are used by iOS devices to display a website's icon on the home screen and in the browser tab. You can again provide
multiple icons.

```html [head output]
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="/apple-icon.png" sizes="180x180" />
```

## Pages Directory

You can also place logos in your `pages` directory. This is useful if you want to have different logos for different pages.

The naming convention is the same as the `public` directory.

```bash
pages/
├── index.vue
├── admin/
│   ├── index.vue
│   └── icon.png
```

This will overwrite any logos in the `public` directory for all `admin` pages.

You can optionally also place your files within the `_dir` directory, which will work the same way.

```bash
pages/
├── index.vue
├── admin/
│   ├── _dir/
│   │   └── icon.png # Does the same thing!
│   └── index.vue
```
