---
title: Disabling Indexing
description: Learn how to disable indexing for different environments and conditions to avoid crawling issues.
---

There are a number of reasons why you may want to disable indexing of your site.

I've outlined some of the most common scenarios below.

Note, if you're just trying to disable specific routes from being indexed, you should use the [robots.txt config](/robots/guides/robots-txt) instead.

## Hidden Production

In the case that you have a production site that you don't want search engines to know about, you should explicitly set the `indexable` option to `false`.

This would be common for internal business tools, or sites that are not ready for public consumption.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  site: { indexable: false }
})
```

## Preview / Staging / Testing Environments

These environments are great for testing out code before it goes to production. But we definitely don't want search engines to index them.

You want these hidden from search engines. You will need to provide a site `env` for each of them.

This is only needed for non-production environments, as the default value is `production` when your Nuxt app is built.

Because these will change depending on your environment, you should use the `NUXT_SITE_ENV` environment variable to set them.

```
NUXT_SITE_ENV=preview
```

Feel free to set it to whatever you want, as long as it's not `production`.

## Alternative Production URLs

In the case where you have multiple domains or subdomains which point to your canonical URL, you only want one version of them to be indexed.

For example, `www.example.com` and `example.com`, we only want to index `example.com`

In this case, you should _permanently redirect_ instead of opt-ing out of indexing.

If you're using the [Nuxt SEO Module](/nuxt-seo/getting-started/what-is-nuxt-seo) you can use the `redirectToCanonicalSiteUrl` option.

## Multi-tenancy Production Site

This is a bit more complicated but this is where [Nuxt Site Config](/nuxt-config/getting-started/installation) shines.

You should use the `updateSiteConfig`, the recommendation is to use a Nitro plugin or middleware to do.

You can see docs for this here: https://nuxtseo.com/site-config/nitro-api/update-site-config
