---
title: useBreadcrumbItems()
description: A Breadcrumb composable used to display a breadcrumb list that helps users to navigate between pages.
---

The `useBreadcrumbItems()` composable is a way to generate an automatic breadcrumb list that helps users to navigate between pages.

- Integrates with [Nuxt Schema.org](/schema-org/getting-started/installation) to generate [BreadcrumbList](https://schema.org/BreadcrumbList) structured data.
- Integrates with [Nuxt I18n](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/) to generate localized breadcrumbs.

## Demo

::tab-comparison

:BreadcrumbNuxtUiExample{label="Nuxt UI"}

:BreadcrumbRawExample{label="Headless"}

::

## Modifying Breadcrumbs

Because the breadcrumb is generated automatically, you may need to modify the final output.

It's important to do this within the `defineBreadcrumbItems` function, as it will ensure that the Schema.org is generated correctly.

### Route Meta

If you need to modify the breadcrumb for a specific static route, you can use the `breadcrumb` property of the route meta.

```vue twoslash [Page Meta]
<script lang="ts" setup>
definePageMeta({
  breadcrumb: {
    icon: 'i-heroicons-home',
    ariaLabel: 'Home'
  },
})
</script>
```

### Overrides

When you need more control over the final output, you can use the `overrides` prop. This allows
you to override any part of the breadcrumb.

The property takes an array of either: `BreadcrumbItem`, `false` or `undefined`, the array
of overrides is applied in the order they are provided.

When providing `undefined`, nothing will be overridden. When providing `false`, the breadcrumb
will be removed.

For example, if you have the path `/blog/my-post` and you want to override the `my-post` segment, we need
to target the third item in the array.

```ts twoslash
// path: /blog/my-post will generate ['Home', 'Blog', 'My Post']
useBreadcrumbItems({
  overrides: [
    undefined, // Home
    undefined, // Blog
    {
      label: 'My Awesome Post',
      to: '/blog/my-post',
      icon: 'i-heroicons-home'
    }
  ]
})
```

### `append` and `prepend`

If you need to add items to the end or beginning of the breadcrumb, you can use the `append` and `prepend` props.

```ts twoslash
import { useBreadcrumbItems } from '#imports'

useBreadcrumbItems({
  append: [
    {
      label: 'Final Link'
    }
  ]
})
```

### I18n Integration

If you're using the [@nuxtjs/i18n](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/) module, you can use the key `breadcrumbs.items.${routeName}`.

Where `routeName` is the generated name of the Vue Router route.

::code-group

```ts [en.ts]
export default {
  breadcrumb: {
    items: {
      index: {
        icon: 'i-heroicons-home',
        ariaLabel: 'Home'
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```json [en.json]
{
  "breadcrumb": {
    "items": {
      "index": {
        "icon": "i-heroicons-home",
        "ariaLabel": "Home"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

::

## Props

### `path`

- Type: `string`
- Default: `getRoute().path`

The path to generate the breadcrumb for.

### `schemaOrg`

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

Whether to generate [BreadcrumbList](https://schema.org/BreadcrumbList) structured data.

### `ariaLabel`

- Type: `string`
- Default: `'Breadcrumbs'`

The Aria Label for the breadcrumbs.

### `hideRoot`

- Type: `MaybeRefOrGetter<boolean>`
- Default: `false`

Whether the root breadcrumb should be shown.

### `hideCurrent`

- Type: `MaybeRefOrGetter<boolean>`
- Default: `false`

Whether the current breadcrumb should be shown. This is usually the last item in the breadcrumb, but not always.

### `overrides`

- Type: `(BreadcrumbItem | false | undefined)[]`
- Default: `[]`

An array of items to override the generated breadcrumbs with.

### `append`

- Type: `BreadcrumbItem[]`
- Default: `[]`

An array of items to append to the generated breadcrumbs.

### `prepend`

- Type: `BreadcrumbItem[]`
- Default: `[]`

An array of items to prepend to the generated breadcrumbs.
