---
title: v2 RC to v2 Stable
description: Migrate from the Nuxt SEO v2 RC to the v2 stable.
---

## Introduction

This guide will help you migrate from the Nuxt SEO v2 RC to the v2 stable release.

Please see the [announcement](/announcement) post for details on the release.

## Support

If you get stuck with the migration or have post-migration bugs, please get in touch!

- [Jump in the Discord](https://discord.com/invite/5jDAMswWwX)
- [Make a GitHub issue](https://github.com/harlan-zw/nuxt-seo/issues)

## Nuxt Site Config v3

Nuxt Site Config is a module used internally by Nuxt Robots.

The major update to v3.0.0 shouldn't have any direct effect on your site, however, you may want to double-check
the [breaking changes](https://github.com/harlan-zw/nuxt-site-config/releases/tag/v3.0.0).

## Nuxt SEO Utils v6

In moving to the stable release, Nuxt SEO experiments has been renamed from `nuxt-seo-experiments` to `nuxt-seo-utils`.

The original name of the module was `nuxt-seo-experiments`, hinting that the features weren't stable and that they would land in the Nuxt core. This is no longer the case, and the module has been renamed to reflect this.

With this rename the module scope changes to include the random functionality that Nuxt SEO was previously providing:

- `useBreadcrumbItems()` composable
- Config: `redirectToCanonicalSiteUrl`
- Config: `fallbackTitle`
- Config: `automaticDefaults`

As Nuxt SEO Utils shared the same config key as the Nuxt SEO module, no changes are required to your config, however, it's worth
testing your site to ensure that everything is working as expected.

## Nuxt Sitemap v7

### Removed `inferStaticPagesAsRoutes` config

If you set this value to `false` previously, you will need to change it to the below:

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
	sitemap: {
-    	inferStaticPagesAsRoutes: false,
+    	excludeAppSources: ['pages', 'route-rules', 'prerender']
	}
})
```

### Removed `dynamicUrlsApiEndpoint` config

The `sources` config supports multiple API endpoints and allows you to provide custom fetch options, use this instead.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
	sitemap: {
-    	dynamicUrlsApiEndpoint: '/__sitemap/urls',
+    	sources: ['/__sitemap/urls']
	}
})
```

### Removed `cacheTtl` config

Please use the `cacheMaxAgeSeconds` as its a clearer config.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
	sitemap: {
-    	cacheTtl: 10000,
+    	cacheMaxAgeSeconds: 10000
	}
})
```

### Removed `index` route rule / Nuxt Content support

If you were using the `index: false` in either route rules or your Nuxt Content markdown files, you will need to update this to use the `robots` key.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  routeRules: {
    // use the `index` shortcut for simple rules
-    '/secret/**': { index: false },
+    '/secret/**': { robots: false },
  }
})
```

## Nuxt Robots v5

### Removed `rules` config

The v4 of Nuxt Robots provided a backward compatibility `rules` config. As it was deprecated, this is no longer supported. If you're using `rules`, you should migrate to the `groups` config or use a robots.txt file.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
	robots: {
-    	rules: {},
+    	groups: {}
	}
})
```

### Removed `defineRobotMeta` composable

This composable didn't do anything in v4 as the robots meta tag is enabled by default. If you'd like to control the robot meta tag rule, use the [`useRobotsRule()`](/docs/robots/api/use-robots-rule) composable.

```diff
- defineRobotMeta(true)
+ useRobotsRule(true)
```

### Removed `RobotMeta` component

This component was a simple wrapper for `defineRobotMeta`, you should use [`useRobotsRule()`](/docs/robots/api/use-robots-rule) if you wish to control the robots rule.

### Removed `index`, `indexable` config

When configuring robots using route rules or [Nuxt Content](/docs/robots/guides/content) you could control the robot's behavior by providing `index` or `indexable` rules.

These are no longer supported and you should use `robots` key.

```diff
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  routeRules: {
    // use the `index` shortcut for simple rules
-    '/secret/**': { index: false },
+    '/secret/**': { robots: false },
  }
})
```

## :icon{name="i-noto-rocket"} Features

### Config `blockAiBots`

AI crawlers can be beneficial as they can help users finding your site, but for some educational sites or those not
interested in being indexed by AI crawlers, you can block them using the `blockAIBots` option.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  robots: {
    blockAiBots: true
  }
})
```

This will block the following AI crawlers: `GPTBot`, `ChatGPT-User`, `Claude-Web`, `anthropic-ai`, `Applebot-Extended`, `Bytespider`, `CCBot`, `cohere-ai`, `Diffbot`, `FacebookBot`, `Google-Extended`, `ImagesiftBot`, `PerplexityBot`, `OmigiliBot`, `Omigili`
