---
title: Using The Modules
description: How to use the different modules when using Nuxt SEO.
---

## Module Features

As a minimum before you can use any of the modules, you need to [set up your site config](/nuxt-seo/guides/configuring-modules).

### Nuxt SEO Module

A collection of SEO features that don't fit anywhere else.

- Automatic [default meta](/nuxt-seo/guides/default-meta) for your site.
- Automatic [fallback title](/nuxt-seo/guides/fallback-title) for your site.
- Opt-in [breadcrumbs](/nuxt-seo/api/breadcrumbs) with Schema.org support

### Sitemap

Automatically generates a sitemap for your site

- When prerendering or using static only routes, no config is needed, it will automatically generate a sitemap for you.
- If you have dynamic routes, you'll need to set up a handler for [Dynamic URLs](/sitemap/guides/dynamic-urls).

### Robots

Automatically generates a robots.txt, `X-Robots` and robot meta tags for your site.

- If you have any other environments besides development and production, you need to configure the `env` option. See the [Disabling Indexing](/robots/guides/disable-indexing) guide for more information.
- By default, all routes are allowed for all user-agents. See [Disabling Page Indexing](/robots/guides/disable-page-indexing) to start blocking routes.

### OG Image

Generate dynamic Open Graph images for your pages.

- Opt-in, by default, it won't do anything unless you configure it.
- See the [Tutorial: Getting Familiar With Nuxt OG Image](/og-image/getting-started/getting-familar-with-nuxt-og-image) docs on setting it up.

Note: If you don't intend to generate dynamic images, it's recommended to [disable this module](#disabling-modules).

### Schema.org

Automatically generates schema.org JSON-LD for your pages.

- Provides [default Schema.org](/schema-org/guides/default-schema-org) for your pages.
- It's recommended to [set up an Identity](/schema-org/guides/quick-setup) for your site as well.
- You can opt in to more Schema.org using [useSchemaOrg](/schema-org/guides/full-documentation).

### Link Checker

Checks all links for issues that may be affecting your SEO.

- When building your site it will check links
- You can also run it manually by opening the "Link Checker" tab in Nuxt DevTools

### SEO Experiments

A few extra SEO Nuxt features that don't fit anywhere else.

- See the [SEO Experiments Features](/experiments/getting-started/features) guide for more information.
- Automatic File Metadata [Icons](/experiments/guides/app-icons) and [Open Graph Images](/experiments/guides/open-graph-images)
- Opt in [seoMeta](/experiments/guides/nuxt-config-seo-meta) in your nuxt.config and route rules

## Disabling Modules

Since Nuxt SEO installs and enables modules for you, you may run into a situation where you want to disable a module.

The modules have these config keys:
- `nuxt-og-image` - `ogImage`
- `@nuxtjs/sitemap` - `sitemap`
- `@nuxtjs/robots` - `robots`
- `nuxt-seo-experiments` - `seoExperiments`
- `nuxt-schema-org` - `schemaOrg`
- `nuxt-link-checker` - `linkChecker`

You can disable any of these modules by setting the module's `enabled` value to `false` in your `nuxt.config.ts` file.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  ogImage: {
    enabled: false
  },
  sitemap: {
    enabled: false
  },
  robots: {
    enabled: false
  },
  seoExperiments: {
    enabled: false
  },
  schemaOrg: {
    enabled: false
  },
  linkChecker: {
    enabled: false
  }
})
```

### Keeping workers under 1mb

If you are using Nuxt SEO in a serverless environment, you may want to keep your workers under 1mb. The module that
will contribute the most to your worker size is `nuxt-og-image`.

If you are not using `ogImage`, you can disable it, otherwise consider prerendering your images.
