---
title: What is Site Config?
description: Learn about the motivation behind Nuxt Site Config and a bit about how it works.
---

Site config aims to be to things:
- A single source of truth for site config, for end-users and module authors. Site config can be considered config that is commonly used amongst modules but is not supported by the Nuxt core.
- A set of APIs for working with "writeable runtime config", for end-users and module authors.

## Site Config Examples

### `url`

A canonical site URL is important for SEO and performance

### `env`

The environment the site is running in, importing so we can disable indexing for non-production environments.

See [this issue](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/issues/19819) on why we can't use `process.env.NODE_ENV`.

### `indexable`

Can the site be indexed by search engines? Sometimes we have production sites that we don't want to be indexed.

### `name`

The name of the site is often used in meta tags and other SEO related tags

### `trailingSlash`

Trailing slashes are important for SEO and performance.

## What's the problem?

Not having a single source of truth for site config can be difficult to maintain and error-prone, for end-users and module authors.

Requiring a lot of duplication and boilerplate code to support the same features across modules.

Nuxt Site Config aims
to unify the experience of site config with a set of powerful and flexible APIs for end-users and module authors.

## Can't we just use the Request URL or module config?

Nuxt itself provides a great SSR utility for getting the site URL from the request headers at runtime.

However, this has two major drawbacks:
- It's not available at build time or when prerendering
- When used for SEO content, it can cause duplicate content issues if the URL is not the canonical URL (e.g. `www.example.com` and `example.com`)

## Can't we just use `site` on Runtime / App Config?

Yes. In fact, this module uses `site` on the App Config and Nuxt Config under the hood.

This module acts as a wrapper around these data sources, as well as:
- Environment variables
- Runtime Config
- Route Rules

It aims to keep all these in sync, resulting in a single source of truth for site config.

## How does it work?

See [How it works](/site-config/getting-started/how-it-works) for more details.

## End goal

We should be able to spin up multi-tenant or multi-lingual Nuxt app with minimal effort, and Nuxt modules should just work, without any additional configuration.

This is quite far off, but it sets a good direction for the module.
