---
title: How it works
description: Learn how the Nuxt Site Config module works, so you can get the most out of it.
---

# Config Sources

Site config is resolved from the following sources, in order of precedence:

## Build Time

### 1. System

System details relate to the environment the app is running in.

```ts
export default {
  name: rootDirBaseName, // e.g. '/home/harlan/projects/my-nuxt-app' -> 'my-nuxt-app'
  indexable: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'
}
```

### 2. Package.json

Site config provided by the package.json file.

```ts
export default {
  name: pkgJson.name,
  description: pkgJson.description,
}
```

### 3. Vendor Environment Variables

Environment variables provided by the hosting providers.

```ts
export default {
  url: [
    // vercel, netlify
    process.env.NUXT_ENV_VERCEL_URL,
    process.env.URL,
    // cloudflare pages
    process.env.CF_PAGES_URL,
  ],
  // vercel, netlify
  name: [process.env.NUXT_ENV_VERCEL_GIT_REPO_SLUG, process.env.SITE_NAME]
}
```

### 4. Module overrides

Build time site config provided by modules.

### 5. Nuxt Config `site` key

Site config provided by the user in the Nuxt config.

### 6. Runtime Config and Environment Variables

Site config provided by the user at runtime. `runtimeConfig.public.site` and associated environment variables.

This will also attempt to use legacy environment variables from Nuxt:
- Private / public runtime config camel cased `siteUrl`, `public.siteUrl`
- Environment variables with and without `PUBLIC`: `NUXT_ENV_SITE_URL`, `NUXT_ENV_PUBLIC_SITE_URL`

### 7. Nuxt Hook

The `site-config:resolve` hook is called to allow any final build-time modifications to the config.

## SSR / Nitro Runtime

### 1. Request URL

The request URL is used to determine the site URL at runtime.

### 2. Build Time Site Config

Config resolved in the build step. This is stored on the `runtimeConfig.public.site` key.

### 3. App Config

Config resolved from the App Config using the `site` key.

### 4. Route Rules

Config resolved from the route rules of the request path, the `site` key. This allows for multi-site support.

## CSR Runtime

### 1. Browser Context

Uses the site URL from the `window.location.origin`.

### 2. SSR Runtime Config

The SSR runtime config created in the SSR step. This is sent to the client-side to avoid hydration errors.
