---
title: Getting Indexed
description: How to get your site crawled and indexed for the first time by Google.
publishedAt: 2024-10-25
updatedAt: 2024-10-25
---

Just deployed your site to production for the first time? Congrats on the launch! 🚀

The next step will be to get your site appearing on Google, here is some tips on doing that.

## Alternative Production URLs

In the case where you have multiple domains or subdomains which point to your main site, you only want one version of them to be indexed.

For example, `www.example.com` and `example.com` both serve our app, but we only want `example.com` to appear in Google.

This can't be solved with the Robots module itself.

To solve this we have two solutions:
- Redirect all non-canonical URLs to the canonical URL.
- Set canonical URLs in your pages.

If you're using the [Nuxt SEO Module](/docs/nuxt-seo/getting-started/what-is-nuxt-seo) you can use the `redirectToCanonicalSiteUrl` option.

## Submit Sitemap to Google

The first step is to submit your sitemap to Google.

You can do this by using the [Google Search Console](https://search.google.com/search-console/welcome). Creating
a Google Search Console property is also useful for monitoring your site's performance in search results.

You should submit your sitemap which will either be `/sitemap.xml` or `/sitemap_index.xml`.

## Request Indexing

Once your sitemap is submitted, you can request indexing of your site. The simplest
way to do this is to use the [URL Inspection Tool](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9012289?hl=en).

If you'd like something more automated, you can use the [Request Indexing](https://requestindexing.com/) - a
free, open-source tool that I built that allows you to request indexing of your site in bulk.

## Good Lighthouse Scores

Google Lighthouse is great for showing you issues on your site that may be affecting your SEO.

It's recommended to fix any issues that Lighthouse shows you, as they can affect your site's performance in search results.

I wouldn't be concerned about getting a perfect score and I wouldn't spend too long on the performance
side of Lighthouse, but the other categories are important to get right.

You can use [Unlighthouse](https://unlighthouse.dev/) to get a Lighthouse report for your site. It's a free, open-source
tool I made that allows you to get Lighthouse reports for your site in bulk.

## Backlinks

Backlinks are links from other websites to your site. They are one of the most important factors in SEO.

The easiest way to get some initial backlinks on your new site is to share it on social media.

If you use Twitter, you can share your new site link, mention Nuxt SEO and tag me in it [@harlan_zw](https://twitter.com/harlan_zw), and I may retweet it for you! 🐦
